Hey guys, Ben with you here, and welcome to
Testing Grounds GDD, the Game Design Document! So let's dive in and see what the vision for this game is!
So slightly inspired by the Hunger Games, you're a contestant in an entertainment
game, some sort of sick game where you are being watched and you have to try and
survive as many testing grounds as possible. So
the question is, can you reach the end? Is there even an end to the game? [Laughs]
Are there an infinite number of grounds or not? Well we will let the player 1 know
whether or not there are an infinite number of grounds, and, indeed, we're going to decide
on how many there are, based on how we create the assets. And that we're going to
decide as we go through the section, depending on whether we end up down the procedural
generation route or down the route of creating testing
grounds by hand. If it's by hand then, obviously it's going to be finite.
You can use force or stealth to pass through the grounds.
So you'll understand more about that, as we go through this GDD, but basically,
you can fight your way through or sneak your way through or a combination of both.
So the rules are, you can pass a testing ground undetected,
if detected you must clear the area, and check points
save when you pass into a new area, so pretty simple stuff. If you're killed you'll return
to the last checkpoint, and you and enemies will be fighting for the same
ammo resources and you're scored, ultimately, on how many areas you can
pass. This bit about fighting for the same ammo resources I thought it would
be a bit of fun! The AI will need to look for ammo on dead bodies
or on pickups, and you'll all be looking for the same ammo, rather than the
AI just having like infinite ammo. I thought that'd be a bit of fun! OK so,
what do we need? We're going to need some testing ground landscapes, either made by hand or procedurally
generated. We're going to need some Unreal starter content,
plus the landscape tools that they've got built in, some guns, some ammo boxes.
A rigged humanoid character, which we can modify, the one that Unreal
gives us should be fine. And various sound effects, I'm going to be
using samples from Gamemaster Audio, who's kindly, well not donated, but said that we
can use samples from their pack provided that we credit him. So I really
appreciate that! And of course, other stuff I haven't though of yet. [Laughs] So there'll be
other requirements, but the whole point here, with a Game Design Document, is not
to go nuts. You really want to just get on with making the game quite quickly and get to
the fun as quickly as you can, and then, as soon as it's fun get it out to your people to
try. So this other stuff I haven't thought of yet is kind of a light
hearted jib, but the idea is to say, look
there's going to be tons of stuff you haven't thought of but let's get an overall grand idea
of the type of requirements. Typically, programmers will underestimate the amount
of content required. Remember content is king, content meaning
audio, original audio, content meaning meshes, textures, etc.
So all of that stuff can take a huge amount of time, and it's usually important,
it's the thing that makes your game unique. So technical cha...
[Laughs] Potential Technical Challenges, rather than potechnical tencial
challenges. Serialization when saving. So we want to be able to
save at the checkpoint, but we want to be able to save most of the state of the game at the
checkpoint, at least your ammo and any weapons and all this type of
stuff. So we may have some challenges with serialization and we'll do our best to solve those.
The whole architecture of a checkpoint system, so
you alert a lot of guards, that means the area's locked down a bit like in
the modern Doom game. How do we know, how does the game know, how does the
checkpoint know when all those enemies are killed, and what is an area and all
these sorts of questions? It's all about responsibility, dependencies, architecture, lots
of ways of doing it, of course, but we'll be discussing some of the ways and the pros and
cons. If we get to co-op play, then we're going to
have to make sure that the networking is smooth in there, and procedural
generation of the testing grounds, if we go down that route, that could present some interesting challenges.
And the whole idea of creating a new skeletal animation,
for us dev types, could be challenging, because it may not be that
easy just to add a new animation into an already professionally animated
character. So there are some challenges we may meet! Now, let's talk about, for
a moment, how the grounds spawn and the whole layout.
So here's the first testing ground here! And you come in on the left-
hand side, and there's already a second testing ground spawned.
Behind you will be a red force field, effectively a closed door,
but I think I'll make it an opaque red force field. And in front of you, initially,
will be a semiopaque green force field, kind of luring
you to that end. So the idea is to head left to right. You'll see in the distance, you should be able to see
through it into at least the next testing ground, and there will be this open door
effectively, and in here we'll have enemies and cover and basically a terrain.
Now, if you alert an AI the far door will close, the area
will lock down. The moment the area's locked down, the
only way you can then get out is to clear all of the enemies. So once the last
AI none player character is dead, this door will reopen, or this force field
will grow green again. You can then pass through, and the moment you pass through it locks
behind you, that's the cruelty of this thing! But the one in front of you is giving you
hope again, you can make it to the other side! If you can sneak to the other side, you can
pass straight through. If you get detected then it's going to lock down
and the whole cycle is going to repeat. So hopefully it's pretty clear what's
going on there. OK, so that'll provide a pretty
cool basis for the game. Now you're welcome to add any other things you want, and
especially if those things can be done using what you've already learned in Battle Tank or Building
Escape. So I want you to think about what the scope of your game is going to be, your Game Design Document.
The more advanced you are, the more you want to deviate from my ideas.
The less advanced you are, the less comfortable you are, the more you want to just stick to what we're giving you.
Write a post on our forum community.gamedev.tv. Use the link
in the resources of this lecture, that'll take you exactly to the right place to
write that post. It'll take you to the right sub-section of Unreal, but also,
it'll tag the post with the correct lecture tag and that will help
everybody else find it. Start a new topic, write your GDD,
and use markdown to format it. Why not get a little bit used to using markdown. Now that's not
just so that you make pretty posts on our forum, but markdown is used in a lot of different
places, it's an approximation or simplification of HTML.
But also, we're going to be talking about, in the very next lecture, Git and
the readme.md file, which is a markdown file that is on the Git
repositories that are on Github.com,
and so I just want you to start getting used to Markdown. You can do a Google search
for Daring Fireball Markdown, and I'll put that in your resources.
That's the kind of definitive guide to the syntax of markdown, and just
use at least some markdown and also our forum will guide you on that as well. And
include sketches, you can upload images. So go ahead, share your GDD with us
in the forum, and that's it for this video! I'm not going to do anymore, I've already
written the GDD, you just saw mine. And I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture!